Caloosahatchee River Estuary - Optical Model Evaluation
================

### Purpose

The objective of this project is to evaluate existing optical or
spectral models developed for the tidal Caloosahatchee River Estuary and
surrounding areas. Optical models are useful in Colored dissolved
organic matter (CDOM) dominated estuaries to evaluate changes in light
attenuation and potential impacts to benthic ecology.

### Study Area

The Caloosahatchee River and its estuary is located on the lower west
coast of Florida, USA (Fig 1). The historic Caloosahatchee River was
originally shallow, meandering river with its headwaters located
approximately 100 km inland at Lake Hicpochee and tidally influences
approximately 70 km upstream. To accommodate navigation, flood control
and land reclamation needs the river was straightened and extended
eastward and connected to Lake Okeechobee in the late 1800s essentially
converting the river to a canal, resulting in the C-43 canal
designation. In the early 1900s three lock-and-dam structures were
constructed to control flow and stage elevation along the river. Of the
three lock-and-dam structures installed, the final downstream structure
identified as the S-79 (Franklin Lock and Dam) regulates discharge from
the canal to the estuary. The estuary portion of the Caloosahatchee
River (hereafter Caloosahatchee River Estuary or CRE) extends
approximately 48 km from the S-79 to San Carlos Bay, where it empties
into the Gulf of Mexico and Pine Island Sound

<div class="figure" style="text-align: center">

<img src="./Plots/otherSource/JulianOsborne_Map.png" alt="The C-43 and Caloosahatchee River Estuary (CRE) with water quality; River, Estuary, and Coastal Observing Network (RECON); and flow, weather, and rainfall monitoring locations identified. Upper left inset identifies study location relative to the rest of peninsula Florida, USA. Upper right inset identifies the C-43 canal, C-43 basin, and estuary relative to Lake Okeechobee and associated water control structures. Source: Julian and Osborne (2018)" width="75%" />
<p class="caption">
The C-43 and Caloosahatchee River Estuary (CRE) with water quality;
River, Estuary, and Coastal Observing Network (RECON); and flow,
weather, and rainfall monitoring locations identified. Upper left inset
identifies study location relative to the rest of peninsula Florida,
USA. Upper right inset identifies the C-43 canal, C-43 basin, and
estuary relative to Lake Okeechobee and associated water control
structures. Source: Julian and Osborne (2018)
</p>

</div>

### Literature

Some literature with general summaries specific to this project.

-   Chen Z, Doering PH, Ashton M, Orlando BA (2015) Mixing Behavior of
    Colored Dissolved Organic Matter and Its Potential Ecological
    Implication in the Caloosahatchee River Estuary, Florida. Estuaries
    and Coasts 38:1706–1718. <https://doi.org/10.1007/s12237-014-9916-0>

    -   CDOM is one of the most important water quality constituents
        impacting light attenuation in estuaries; its concentration and
        distribution influence light quality and quantity available to
        phytoplankton and submerged aquatic vegetation.

    -   Light attenuation in the CRE was controlled primarily by CDOM in
        the upper estuary and by turbidity in the lower estuary. The
        contribution of chlorophyll a (Chl a) to light attenuation was
        less than both CDOM and turbidity.

-   Corbett CA, Hale JA (2006) Development of water quality target for
    Charlotte Harbor, Florida using seagrass light requirements. Florida
    Scientist 69:36–50
    [Link](https://www.jstor.org/stable/24322131?seq=1#metadata_info_tab_contents)

    -   Provides an optical model to set water quality targets for
        color, turbidity and chlorophyll a that maintain
        percent-light-at-depth requirements to achieve the maximum
        seagrass depth distribution presently observed in seagrass
        transect monitoring. Analysis of recently collected water
        quality data show that in all regions of the harbor, dry season
        water quality in general met the percent-light-at-depth goals
        proposed in this effort but less than half the data met the
        goals during the wet season

-   Dixon LK, Wessel MR (2016) A spectral optical model and updated
    water clarity reporting tool for Charlotte Harbor seagrasses.
    Florida Scientist 79:69–92.
    [Link](https://www.jstor.org/stable/44113166)

    -   Quantify how primary light attenuation parameters affect the
        amount and quality of light reaching seagrass target depths
        through the development of a spectrally explicit optical model,
        based on partitioned absorption and scattering, and
        parameterized as a function of color, chlorophyll, and
        turbidity.

-   McPherson BF, Miller RL (1987) The vertical attenuation of light in
    Charlotte Harbor, a shallow, subtropical estuary, south-western
    Florida. Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science 25:721–737.
    <https://doi.org/10.1016/0272-7714(87)90018-7>

    -   The relative contribution of different components to the
        attenuation of PAR as determined in the Charlotte Harbor
        estuarine system based on laboratory and *in-situ* measurements.

    -   Suspended Solids, DOM (color), chlorophyll and water accounted
        for as much as 99% of k<sub>t</sub>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
